Hii all.
Let's have a quick introduction on DP on trees .
And in this section we will solve some very good basic problems on dp on trees.
Once we understood that, then we'll solve some very advanced problems regarding it.
And before moving further, I just like to give a small introduction on what is dp on trees.
So dp on trees is nothing but we have a tree data structure
We all know what a tree is right?
Trees have some special properties.
There are N nodes.
And there will be.
Exactly.
N minus one edges.
Correct.
And a tree is nothing but a connected.
It is connected and there are some very special basic properties.
I want you all to already know these properties regarding trees.
Right.
Then only you can understand what is DP on trees and how will it work.
But first understand what is trees, a Trees data structure.
And then we'll move on with DP on trees
So basically I'll be using few terms in this.
For example, the first time is DAG, which is nothing but directed acyclic graph.
This is important, so every dynamic programming solution.
As we can see in this.
This is nothing but a Fibonacci series, right?
I've taken the example of Fibonacci series, this Fibonacci series.
We can see this is a simple recursive Tree of Fibonacci series, when N = 5.
I just made a part of the tree.
So in directed acyclic graphs, what I'll say is that every recursive relation is a directed acyclic graph
that means.
Yeah.
So the first thing is that.
It is directed because we know that if let's say a f(n) calling f(n-1), then f(n-1)
will not call f(n), right?.
So it's it's one directional you can easily see in this tree.
So basically, this is a tree, but I will convert it to a graph right.
I'll show you how.
So you can easily see that it's moving downwards.
It's directed right there.
There is no Uni directional edges, bi-directional edges.
So it's a directed.
Now, the second thing is, acyclic
That means this should not have a cycle.
But that means if I have a state, let's say f(x) and it depends on a state, called f(y), then f(y) let's say
depends on state f(z) then f(z) cannot depend on f(x).
So here we will see that there is a cycle in the graph.
So there shouldn't be these type of situations in our dynamic programming solution.
There will never be these type of situation because if I apply a recursion and I try to do f - x,y,z
then it will go on till infinity, right?
Because to calculate x I  want y and for y, I want z and for z, i want x again, and then it will be an infinite loop.
And so the graph here is directed.
It should be acyclic and it is a graph, right?
Why is it a graph why not a tree.
Why can't we say it as a tree?
Right.
Because here we can easily see that it is a recursive tree.
But actually this is not a proper way to represent.
The proper way would be that if I don't have.
Let's try to reduce the duplicacy in this tree.
Right.
So I have F5.
Okay, let me make it over here f4.
Let's say I have f3, I have f2, I have f1, right.
So I have these.
many, for f5 i call f4 and f3, for f4 i call f3 and f2, for f3.
I call f2 and F1.
Correct.
So this I can say this to be a proper representation of Fibonacci series, dynamic programming directed
acyclic graph.
Here you can see it is acyclic there's no cycle in this.
This is not a cycle.
Right?
Because if I talk about directed graph, this will never be a cycle.
I cannot start from a particular node.
Let's say I start from f5.
I cannot reach f5 by any of the path, but here you can see it's a detected acyclic graph.
And this was a.
I can say that this has a cool representation.
This is a recursive tree.
And from this, you can easily understand what function calls are being made.
But this is actually a representation of a Fibonacci
directed acyclic graph because I haven't duplicated I haven't duplicated the states here.
Correct.
So what will happen in all the problems that we have solved till now and will be solving further
There will be a directed acyclic graph.
Some states will depend on other states and it will be a graph.
So that's why I'm calling it a graph and not a tree, I'm not saying it a directed acyclic tree.
It's a directed acyclic graph, right?
So as we can see, this is not a tree because the one and only condition of the trees is N nodes and
N minus one edges and it should be connected.
Correct?
I know this is connected, but if it has n nodes, it does not have n minus one edges.
It's a graph.
So.
Yeah.
Thank you all.
And in this section, we'll learn more about Dp on Trees.
In the next section, we'll learn more about DP on graphs